# **Moving S3 Objects between Storage Classes.**

You can transition your S3 objects between storage classes.

* For infrequently access objects, move them to "Standard-IA".
* For archive objects you don't need in real-time, move them to "Glacier" or "Deep-Archive".
* Moving objects can be automated using a **lifecycle configuration**.

## **Lifecycle Rules.**

* Transition Actions - define when objects are transitioned to another storage class.
    * i.e. Move objects to Standard-IA class 60 days after creation.
    * Move to Glacier for archiving after 6 months.
* Expiration Actions - configure objecs to expire (delete) after a specific amount of time.
    * Access log files can be set to delete after 365 days.
    * Can be used to delete old versions of files if we have versioning enabled.
    * Can be used to delete incomplete multi-part uploads.
* Rules can be applied on the prefix level as well as the bucket level.
* Rules can also be applied to certain object tags.

## **Lifecycle Rules - Scenario 1\***

_"You application on EC2 creates image thumbnails after profile photos are uploaded to Amazon S3. These thumbnails can be easily recreated, and only need to be kept for 45 days. The source images should be able to be retrieved for these 45 days, and afterwards, the user can wait up to 6 hours. How would you design this?"_

**Answer** - S3 source images can be of S3 class "Standard", with a lifecycle configuration that will transition them to a "Glacier" storage class after 45 days. The thumbnails should be "OneZone-IA" class, with a lifecycle configuration that will transition them to expire (be deleted) after 45 days.

## **Lifecycle Rules - Scenario 2\***

_"There is a rule in your company that states that you should be able to recover your S3 deleted objects immediately for 15 says, although this may happen rarely. After this time, and for up to 365 days, deleted objects should be recoverable within 48 hours."_

**Answer** - First and foremost, we need to enable S3 versioning on our bucket, that way, deleted objects are in-fact recoverable & are simply hidden by a "delete marker". We can transition "noncurrent versions" of a specific object to class "S3-IA". After the 15 day period, we can transition all of he "noncurrent versions" to "Deep-Archive" class.