# **EventBridge.**

* EventBridge is the next evolution of CloudWatch Events.
* By default we have the **Default Event Bus** that is generated by AWS services (CloudWatch Events).
* There is also the **Partner Event Bus**, this event bus receives events from SaaS sevices or applications (such as DataDog, Segment, Auth0...).
* There is also scope for **Cusom Event Buses** that we can define for our own applications.
* Event buses can be accessed by other AWS accounts.
* You can archive events (all/filter) sent to an event bus (indefinitely or set period).
* Ability to replay any archived events.
* Events have rules that tell us how to process any events (similar to CloudWatch Events).

## **Schema Registry.**

* EventBridge can analyse the events in your bus & infer the schema.
* The Schema Registry allows you to generate code for your application, that will know in advance how data is structured in the event bus.
* Schemas can be versioned.

## **Resource-Based Policies.**

* Manage specific permissions for a specific event bus.
* e.g. - allow / deny events from another AWS account or AWS region.
* Use cases:
    * Aggregate all events from your AWS organisation into a single AWS account or region.

## **EventBridge vs CloudWatch Events.**

* EventBridge builds upon & extents CloudWatch Events.
* It uses the same service API & endpoint, the same underlying service infrastructure.
* EventBridge allows extension functionality to add event buses for custom application & 3rd-party applications.
* EventBridge has the Schema Registry capability.
* EventBridge has a different name to mark the new capabilities.
* Over time, CloudWatch Events will be replaced with Event Bridge.