# **Docker.**

What is Docker?...

* Docker is a software development platform to deploy applications.
* Applications are packaged in containers that can be run on any operating system.
* Applications run the same, regardless of where they are run:
    * Any machine.
    * No compatibility issues.
    * Predictable behaviour.
    * Less work.
    * Easier to maintain & deploy.
    * Works with any language, any OS, any tech stack.
* Common use cases include:
    * Microservices.
    * Lift-and-shift applications from on-premise to the cloud.

## **Docker on an OS.**

* You can run multiple docker applications or containers on the same machine.
* Can run on any compute service, EC2, Lambda etc.
* You can also run databases from within Docker.

## **Where are Docker images stored?**

* Docker Hub:
    * Public repository.
    * Find base images for many technologies or OS's (e.g. Ubuntu, MySQL).
* Amazon ECR (Elastic Container Registry):
    * Private repository.
    * Public repository at ECR Public Gallery.

## **Docker vs Virtual Machines.**

* Docker is a "kind" of virtualisation technology (but not exactly).
* Resources are shared with the host.
* Virtual Machines run on a "Hypervisor" - this sits on-top of the physical hardware.
* This means that the same hardware can possibly host more than 1 EC2 instance for different customers.
* The **Docker Daemon** runs on top of the host (e.g. an EC2 instance), of which can house multiple Docker containers.

## **Getting started with Docker.**

* Firstly we need to write a Dockerfile.
* This in turn, will build a Docker Image.
* The image is then pushed a public or private Docker repo.
* These images are then "pulled" from a repository when required.
* Once a specific image is pulled, we can run our code inside of the image.
* We now have what is known as a Docker Container.

## **Docker Container Management on AWS.**

* Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS):
    * AWS's own container platform.
* Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS):
    * AWS's managed Kubernetes service (open source).
* Amazon Fargate.
    * AWS's own serverless container platform.
    * Works with ECS & EKS.
* Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR):
    * Stores container images.