# **Overview.**

Let's imagine that we have deployed an application and have global users who want to access it directly. However, our application is only deployed in one region.

Users want to go over the public internet to access our application, but this can add lots of latency due to many hops.

i.e. if a client wants to access our public ALB that is deployed in India from the US, the client has to pass through 5 "hops" (or additional connecting web servers over the public internet) before they can reach it.

**We want to enable users to be able to go as fast as possible through the AWS network to minimise latency.**

## **Unicast IP vs Anycast IP.**

* **Unicast IP** - one server holds a single IP address.
* **Anycast IP** - all servers hold the same IP address, the client is then routed to the nearest one.

The AWS Global Accelerator leverages this concept of Anycast IP.

## **Global Accelerator.**

* Leverage the AWS internal network to route to your application.
* Instead of clients in the US now communicating via public servers over the public internet - they will now use the closest AWS private edge location to route directly to the public ALB in India.
* 2 Anycast IPs are created for your application.
* The Anycast IP sends traffic directly to edge locations.
* The edge location forwards the traffic on to your application.
* This feature works with:
    * Elastic IP.
    * EC2.
    * ALB, NLB.
    * Public or private applications.
* There is guarenteed conistent performance:
    * Intelligent routing to the lowest latency and fast regional failover.
    * No issues with client cache as the IP doesn't change.
    * Uses internal AWS network.
* Provides health checks for your applications:
    * Ensures your application is global.
    * Good for disaster recovery.
* Secure:
    * Only 2 external IPs need to be whitelisted.
    * DDoS protection thanks to AWS Shield.

## **Global accelerator vs CloudFront.**

* Both use the same global network and its edge locations.
* Both services integrate with AWS Shield to prevent DDoS attacks.
* **CloudFront**:
    * Improves performance for cacheable content (images & videos).
    * Dynamic content (such as API acceleration and dynamic site delivery).
    * Content is served at the edge.
* **Global Accelerator**:
    * Improves performance for a wide range of applications over TCP or UDP.
    * Proxying packets at the edge to applications running in one or more AWS regions.
    * Good fit for non-HTTP use cases such as gaming (UDP), IoT (MQTT) or voice over IP.
    * Good fit for HTTP use cases that require a static IP address.
    * Good for HTTP use cases that require deterministic, fast, regional failover.