# **AWS Snow Overview.**

AWS Snow represents:

* Highly secure, portable devices that collect and process data at the edge & migrate data into and out of AWS.
* For data migration, we have:
    * Snowcone.
    * Snowball Edge.
    * Snowmobile.
* For edge computing, we have:
    * Snowcone.
    * Snowball Edge.

## **Data Migrations.**

Some of the challenges that we face when migrating data (through data transfer over a network), can include:

* Limited connectivity.
* Limited bandwidth.
* High network cost.
* Shared bandwidth.
* Connection stability.

**AWS Snow family provides offline devices that aid transferal of data from one platform or place to another. If it takes more than a week to transfer data over the network - use a Snowball device!**

Let's explore an example:

* We want to upload an extremely large object to S3.
* The network restrictions means that this will take an extremely long amount of time.
* Instead, we can get an AWS Snowball device delivered directly to us.
* We can load the data directly onto the device locally.
* We can then send the device back off to AWS where they will import/export the data into S3 for us.

## **Snowball Edge.**

* Physical data transport solution, used to move TBs or PBs of data in or out of AWS.
* Alternative to moving data over the network (& paying network fees).
* Pay per data transfer job.
* Provide block storage & Amazon S3-compatible object storage.
* **Snowball Edge Storage Optimized** - 80 TB of HDD capacity for block volume and S3 compatible object storage.
* **Snowball Edge Compute Optimized** - 42 TB of HDD capacity for block volume and S3 compatible object storage.
* Use cases:
    * Large data cloud migrations.
    * Data Cloud decommission.
    * Disaster recovery.

## **Snowcone.**

* Small, portable computing, anywhere, rugged & secure, can withstand harsh environments.
* Light.
* Device used for edge computing, storage & data transfer.
* Use Snowcone where Snowball does not fit.
* Must provide own battery and cables.
* Can be sent back to AWS offline, or be connected to the internet where it uses AWS DataSync to send the data.

## **Snowmobile.**

* Transfer exabytes of data.
* Each snowmobile has 100PB of capacity.
* Highly secure, temperature controlled, GPS, surveillance.
* Better for Snowball if you know you are transferring more than 10PB of data.

## **Usage Process.**

1). Request Snowball devices from the AWS console for delivery.\
2). Install the Snowball client / AWS OpsHub on your servers.\
3). Connect the Snowball to your servers and copy files using the client.\
4). Ship back the device when you're done (goes right to the AWS facility).\
5). Data will be loaded into an S3 bucket.\
6). Snowball is completely wiped.

## **Edge Computing.**

* Process data while it's being created on an edge location.
* These edge locations may have:
    * Limited / No internet access.
    * Limited / No access to computing power.
* i.e. think of a mine, a location at sea etc. where we can produce data but have no internet.
* We can thus setup a Snowball Edge / Snowcone device to carry out edge computing.
* Use cases:
    * Pre-process data.
    * Machine learning at the edge.
    * Transcoding media streams.
* Eventually, if required, we can ship the device back to AWS.

The devices we have at our disposal are:
* Snowcone (smaller):
    * 2 CPUs, 4GB of memory, wired or wireless access.
    * USB-C power using a cord or optional battery.
* Snowball Edge - Compute Optimised:
    * 52 vCPUs, 208 GiB of RAM.
    * Optional GPU.
    * 42 TB of usable storage.
* Snowball Edge - Storage Optimised:
    * Up to 40 vCPUs, 80 GiB of RAM.
    * Object storage clustering is available.
* Long-term deployment options - 1 & 3 years discounted pricing.

**All can run EC2 Instances & AWS Lambda functions (using AWS IoT Greengrass).**

## **AWS OpsHub.**

* Historically, to use Snow Family devices, you needed a CLI tool.
* Today, you can use AWS OpsHub (a software you can download locally).
* This app is used for:
    * Unlocking and configuring single or clustered devices.
    * Transferring files.
    * Launching and managing instances running on Snow Family Devices.
    * Monitor device metrics (storage capacity, active instances on your device).
    * Launch compatible AWS services on your devices.