# **Overview.**

* AWS FSx lets you launch 3rd party, high-performance file systems onto AWS.
* It's a fully managed service.
* e.g. Windows file server, Lustre, NetApp ONTAP.

## **AWS FSx for Windows.**

* EFS is a shared POSIX system for Linux systems.
* FSx for Windows is a fully managed Windows file system shared drive.
* Supports SMB protocol & Windows NTFS.
* Microsoft Active Directory integration, ACLs, user quotas.
* Can be mounted on Linux EC2 Instances.
* Can scale up to 10s of GB/s, millions of IOPS, 100s PB of data.
* 2 storage options:
    * SSD - latency sensitive workloads (databases, media processing, data analytics).
    * HDD - broad spectrum of workloads (home directory, CMS, ...)
* Can be accessed from your on-premise infrastructure via VPN or Direct Connect.
* Can be configured to be multi-AZ.
* Data is backed up daily to S3.

## **AWS FSx for Lustre.**

* Lustre is a type of parallel distributed file system, large scale computing.
* The name Lustre is derived from Linux and Cluster.
* Used for machine learning, high performance computing.
* Video processing, financial modelling, electronic design automation.
* Scaled up to 100s GB/s, millions of IOPS, sub-ms latencies.
* Storage options include:
    * SSD - low-latency, IOPS intensive workloads, small & random file operations.
    * HDD - throughput-intensive workloads, large & sequential file operations.
* Seamless integration with S3.
    * Can read S3 as a file system.
    * Can write the output of the computations back to S3.
* Can be used from on-premise servers via VPN or Direct connect.

## **FSx File System Deployment Options.**

* Scratch File System:
    * Temporary storage.
    * Data is not replicated.
    * High burst (6x faster, 200MBps per TiB).
    * Usage - short-term processing, optimise costs.
* Persistent File System:
    * Long-term storage.
    * Data is replicated within the same AZ.
    * Replace failed files within minutes.
    * Usage - long-term processing, sensitive data.