# **Overview.**

* AWS is pushing for "hybrid cloud".
    * Part of your infrastructure is on the cloud.
    * Part of your infrastructure is on-premise.
* This can be due to:
    * Long cloud migrations.
    * Security requirements.
    * Compliance requirements.
    * IT strategy.
* S3 is a propreitary storage technology (unlike EFS / NFS), so how do you expose S3 data on-premise?
* AWS Storage Gateway!
* Storage Gateway helps bridge the gap between on-premise data & cloud data in S3.
* Use cases include:
    * Disaster recovery.
    * Backup & restore.
    * Tiered storage.

## **AWS Storage Cloud Native Options.**

There are 3 types of cloud storage options:
* Block Storage - EBS on EC2, EC2 Instance Store etc.
* File Storage - AWS EFS, AWS FSx.
* Object Storage - S3, Glacier.

## **AWS Storage Gateway.**

There are 3 types of Storage Gateway depending on the use case:
* File gateway.
* Volume gateway.
* Tape gateway.

You need to know the difference between all 3.

## **File Gateway.**

* Configured S3 buckets are accessible using the NFS & SMB protocol.
* Supports S3 standard, S3 IA, S3 One Zone IA.
* Bucket access using IAM roles for each File Gateway.
* Most recently used data is cached in the File Gateway.
* Can be mounted on many servers.
* Can be fully integrated with Active Directory (AD) Groups for user authentication.

## **Volume Gateway.**

* Block storage using iSCSI protocol backed up by S3.
* Backed by EBS snapshots which can help restore on-premise volumes.
* Cached volumes - low latency access to the most recent data.
* Stored volumes - entire dataset is on premise, scheduled backups to S3.
* Works in a similar fashion to File Gateway, but we access EBS snapshots of our application instances.

## **Tape Gateway.**

* Some companies have backup processes using physical tapes.
* With Tape Gateway, companies use the same process, but in the cloud.
* Virtual Tape Library (VTL) backed by S3 & Glacier.
* Back up data using existing tape-based processes.
* Works with leading backup software vendors.

## **Storage Gateway - Hardware Appliance.**

* Using Storage Gateway means you need on-premises virtualisation.
* Otherwise, you can use a Storage Gateway Hardware Appliance.
* Can be bought on amazon.com.
* Works with File, Tape & Volume Gateways.
* Has the required CPU, memory, network, SSD cache resources.

## **Summary.**

* As an exam tip, read the question thoroughly, it will hint at which gateway to use.
* On-premise data to the cloud... automatically think Storage Gateway.
* File access / NFS for a user with Active Directory -> File Gateway (backed by S3).
* Volumes / Block Storage / iSCSI -> Volume Gateway (backed by S3 with EBS snapshots).
* VTL Tape solution / Backup with iSCSI -> Tape Gateway (backed by S3 & Glacier).
* No on-premise virtualisation -> Hardware Appliance.