**Backup & Monitoring for RDS & Aurora.**

* Automated backups:
    * Daily full backups of the database (during the maintenance window).
    * Transaction logs are backed-up by RDS every 5 minutes.
    * Ability to restore to any point in time (from oldest backup to 5 minutes ago).
    * 1-35 days of retention, set to 0 to disable backups.
* Manual DB snapshots:
    * Manually triggered by the user.
    * Retention of the backup for as long as you want.
* **Trick - in a stopped RDS database, you will still pay for storage. If you plan on stopping it for a long time, you should snapshot the DB & restore it when needed instead.**

**Aurora Backups.**

* Automated backups.
    * 1-35 days (this **CANNOT** be disabled).
    * Retention of the backup for as long as you want.

**RDS & Aurora Restore Options.**

* Restoring an RDS / Aurora backup or a snapshot creates a new database.
* Restoring MySQL RDS database from S3:
    * Create a backup of your on-premises database.
    * Store the backup on S3.
    * Restore the backup file onto a new RDS instance running MySQL.
* Restoring MySQL Aurora cluster from S3:
    * Create a backup of your on-premise database using Percona XtraBackup (software).
    * Store the backup file on S3.
    * Restore the backup file onto a new Aurora cluster running MySQL.

**Aurora Database Cloning.**

* Create a new Aurora DB Cluster from an existing one.
* You can clone the production database into say, a staging database.
* Faster than snapshot & restore.
* The new DB cluster uses the same cluster volume & data as the original but will change once data updates are made.
* Very fast & cost-effective.
* **Extremely useful use-case for creating a "staging" database from a production database without impact production at all.**