# **Elastic Beanstalk.**

* Elastic Beanstalk is a developer centric view of deploying an application on AWS.
* It uses all the component's we've seen before such as EC2, ASG, RDS etc.
* It's a managed service:
    * Automatically handles capacity provisioning, load balancing, scaling, application health monitoring, instance configuration etc.
    * Just the application code is the responsibility of the developer.
* We still have full control over the configuration.
* Beanstalk is free but you pat for the underlying resources.

## **Components.**

* **Application** - this is a collection of Elastic Beanstalk components (environments, versions, configurations etc.).
* **Application Version** - the iteration if your application code.
* **Environment.**
    * Collection of AWS resources running the application version.
    * Tiers - Specifying either the Web Server Environment tier or the Worker Environment tier.
    * You can create multiple environments (test, dev, prod).

## **Supported Platforms.**

* Java.
* Go.
* Python.
* .NET
* Node.js
* Single Docker Container.
* Multi Docker Container.

And many other, you can also write you own custom Beanstalk platform if your language of choice isn't supported.

## **Web Tier vs Worker Tier.**

* The web tier involves using common web messaging requests such as HTTP/HTTPS to communicate with our application (i.e. through a load balancer).
* The worker tier involves using a message broker such as AWS Simple Queue Service (SQS) to communicate with our application.