# **CloudFormation.**

## **Infrastructure as Code.**

* Currently, we have been doing a lot of manual work.
* All of this manual work will be very tough to reproduce:
    * In another region.
    * In another AWS account.
    * Within the same region if everything was deleted.
* It would be good if our infrastructure was entirely code.
* That code would be deployed & would create / build / delete any infrastructure.

## **CloudFormation.**

* CloudFormation is a declarative way of outlining your AWS infrastructure, for any resources (most are supported).
* For example, within a CloudFormation template we can state:
    * I want this Security Group.
    * I want this IAM role.
    * I want this EC2 instance.
    * I want this S3 bucket.
* CloudFormation will create all of these things for us, in the right order & with the correct configuration.

## **Benefits of CloudFormation.**

* Infrastructure as code:
    * No resources are manually created, which is excellent for control.
    * The code can be version controlled using git.
    * Changes to the infrastructure are reviewed through code.
* Cost:
    * Each resource within the stack is tagged with an identifier so you can easily see how much a stack costs you.
    * You can estimate the costs of your resources using the CloudFormation template.
    * Savings strategy - in dev. you could automate the deletion of templates at 5pm & recreate at 8am.
* Productivity:
    * Ability to destroy & re-create an infrastructure on the cloud, on the fly.
    * Automated generation of diagram for your templates.
    * Declarative programming (no need to figure out ordering & orchestration).
* Separation of concern:
    * Create many stacks & many layers.
    * VPC stacks, Network stacks, App stacks, etc...

## **How CloudFormation Works.**

* Templates have to be uploaded in S3 & then referenced in CloudFormation.
* To update a template, we can't edit previous ones. We have to upload a new version of the template to AWS.
* Stacks are identified by a name.
* Deleting a stack deletes every single artifact that was created by CloudFormation.

## **Deploying CloudFormation Templates.**

* Manual way:
    * Editing templates in the CloudFormation designer.
    * Using the console to input parameters.
* Automated way:
    * Editing templates in a YAML file.
    * Using the AWS CLI to deploy templates.
    * Recommended way when you want to automate your flow.

## **Building Blocks.**

Template components:
* Resources - your AWS resources declared in the template.
* Parameters - the dynamic inputs for your template.
* Mappings - the static variables for your template.
* Outputs - references to what has been created.
* Conditionals - list of conditions to perform the resource creation.
* Metadata.

## **StackSets.**

* Allows you to create, update or delete stacks across multiple regions with a single operation.
* Administrator account to create StackSets.
* Trusted accounts to create, update, delete stack instances from StackSets.
* When you update a stack set, all associated stack instances are updated throughout all accounts & regions.