# **Buckets & Objects.**

* S3 allows people to store objects (files) in locations within their account known as "buckets" (or directories).
* Buckets must have a globally unique name.
* Buckets are defined at the region level.
* The naming convention follows:
    * No uppercase.
    * No underscores.
    * 3-63 characters long.
    * Not an IP.
    * Must start with a lowercase letter or number.

Objects or files **must have a key**. This key is the **full path to the file location within the bucket/directory.**

For example, if our file lies at S3 location "s3://my-bucket/my_file.txt" then "my-bucket" is our bucket & "my_file.txt" is our key.

**Key's can be composed of a bucket + prefix + object name.

Similarly, if our file is located at "s3://my-bucket/my-prefix/my_file.txt", then "my-bucket/" is our bucket, "my-prefix/" is our prefix, "my_file.txt" is our object name, "my-prefix/my_file.txt" is our key & "my-bucket/my-prefix/my_file.txt" is our full file path.

**There is no concept of "directories" in S3 buckets (although the UI will trick you to think otherwise) - just keys with back slashes ("/").**

## **Objects.**

* Object values are the content of the body:
    * Max object size is 5TB (5000GB).
    * If uploading more than 5GB, must use a multi-part upload for files larger than 5GB.
    * Metadata is available (list of key / value pairs - system or user metadata).
    * Objects can be tagged (Unicode key/value pairs - up to 10 per object) - this is useful for security or lifecycle purposes.
    * Version ID (if bucket versioning is enabled).

