# **Encryption.**

* There are 4 methods of encrypting objects in S3.
    * SSE-S3 - encrypts S3 objects using keys handled & managed by AWS.
    * SSE-KMS - leverages AWS Key Management Service to manage encryption keys.
    * SSE-C - used when you want to manage your own encryption keys.
    * Client side encryption.
* It is important to understand which ones are adapted to which situation for the exam.

## **SSE-S3.**

* SSE-S3 keys are handled and managed by S3.
* Objects are encrypted server side (SSE stands for Server-Side Encryption).
* Encrypts using AES-256.
* Must set a header: "x-amz-server-side-encryption": "AES256" during upload of an object.

## **SSE-KMS.**

* SSE-S3 keys are handled and managed by KMS.
* KMS service allows for more user control and an audit trail.
* Object is encrypted server side.
* Must set a header: "x-amz-server-side-encryption": "aws:kms" during upload of an object.

## **SSE-C.**

* This provides server-side encryption using data keys fully managed by the customer/user outside of AWS.
* Amazon S3 does not store any encrpytion keys you use.
* **HTTPS must be used.**
* Encryption key must be provided in the HTTP headers, for every HTTP request made.

## **Client Side Encryption.**

* Clients must encrypt data before uploading it to S3.
* Clients must decrypt data themselves when retrieving from S3.
* Client libraries such as Amazon S3 Encryption Client can help you encrypt data before upload.
* Customer fully manages the encryption keys and the encryption lifecycle.

## **Encryption in transit (SSL/TLS).**

* Amazon S3 is a HTTP service:
    * It exposes a HTTP endpoint that is non encrypted.
    * It exposes a HTTPS endpoint that is encrypted in flight.
* Any endpoint can be used but HTTPS is recommended where possible.
* Most clients would use the HTTPS endpoint by default.
* HTTPS is mandatory for SSE-C.
* Encryption in flight is also called SSL/TLS (as it uses SSL & TLS certificates).