# **Security.**

There are different types of S3 security:

* User based.
    * IAM Policies - specifies which API calls shoud be allowed for a specific user from the IAM console.
* Resource based.
    * Bucket policies - bucket wide rules that can be set using the console (can allow for cross-account access).
    * Object Access Control List (ACL) - finer grain.
    * Bucket Access Control List (ACL) - even finer grain and much less common.

**Note** - an IAM principal (user, role ect.) can access an S3 object if:
* The user IAM permissions allow it OR the resource policy allows it.
* AND there's no specific deny policy.

## **Bucket Policies.**

* These are JSON based policies - have the following entities (commonly):
    * **Resources** - applied to buckets and objects.
    * **Actions** - API defined actions (such as "S3:GetObject").
    * **Effect** - Allow/Deny.
    * **Principal** - the account or user to apply the policy to.

We should use S3 bucket policies to:
* Grant public access to the bucket.
* Force objects to be encrypted at upload.
* Grant access to another account.

## **Bucket setting to Block Public Access.**

* This blocks objects and buckets from being public, through:
    * New access control lists.
    * Any access control lists.
    * New public bucket or access point policies.
* Block public and cross-account access to buckets and objects through any public bucket or access point policies.
* **These settings were created to prevent company data leaks.**
* If you know your bucket should never be public then you should leave these on.
* Can be set at the account level. 

## **Other S3 Security Features.**

* Networking:
    * Supports VPC Endpoints (for instances inside the VPC without the internet).
* Logging & Audit:
    * S3 access logs can be stored in another S3 bucket.
    * API calls can be logged and monitored used AWS Cloudtrail.
* User Security:
    * MFA Delete - Multi Factor Authentication can be required in versioned buckets to delete objects.
    * Pre-Signed URLs - URLs hat are valid for only a limited amount of time (ex: premium video service for logged in users).