# **RDS & Aurora Migrations.**

## **MySQL.**

* RDS MySQL to Aurora MySQL:
    * Option 1 - DB snapshots from RDS MySQL restored as a MySQL Aurora DB (potential down-time).
    * Option 2 - create an Aurora read replica from your RDS MySQL DB, once the application lag is equal to zero, promote it as it's own DB cluster (this can take time & be expensive, but is continuous).
* External MySQL to Aurora MySQL:
    * Option 1 - use Percona XtraBackup to create a file backup in S3, then create an Aurora MySQL DB from the S3 file.
    * Option 2 - create an Aurora MySQL DB cluster, use the "mysqldump" utility to migrate MySQL into Aurora (this is a lot slower than using S3).
* Use Database Migration Service (DMS) if both databases are up & running.

## **PostgreSQL.**

* RDS PostgreSQL to Aurora PostgreSQL:
    * Option 1 - DB snapshots from RDS PostgreSQL restored as a PostgreSQL Aurora DB (potential down-time).
    * Option 2 - create an Aurora read replica from your RDS PostgreSQL DB, once the application lag is equal to zero, promote it as it's own DB cluster (this can take time & be expensive, but is continuous).
* External PostgreSQL to Aurora PostgreSQL:
    * Option 1 - use Percona XtraBackup to create a file backup in S3, then create an Aurora PostgreSQL DB from the S3 file.
    * Option 2 - create an Aurora PostgreSQL DB cluster, use the "aws_s3" Aurora extension to import PostgreSQL into Aurora (this is a lot slower than using S3).
* Use Database Migration Service (DMS) if both databases are up & running.