# **High Performance Computing.**

* The cloud is the perfect place to perform HPC.
* You can create a very high number of resources in little time.
* You can speed up time to results by adding more resources.
* You pay only for the systems you have used.
* Use cases:
    * Perform genomics.
    * Computational chemistry.
    * Financial risk modelling.
    * Weather prediction.
    * Machine learning.
    * Deep learning.
    * Autonomous driving.

## **Data Management & Transfer.**

* Direct Connect:
    * Move GBs of data to the cloud over a private, secure network.
* Snowball & Snowmobile:
    * Move PB of data to the cloud.
* DataSync:
    * Move large amounts of data between on-premise & S3, EFS, FSx.

## **Compute & Networking.**

* EC2:
    * CPU optimised, GPU optimised.
    * Spot instances / spot fleets for cost savings & auto scaling.
    * EC2 Placement Groups - cluster for good network performance.
* EC2 Enhanced Networking (SR-IOV):
    * Higher bandwidth, higher packet per second, lower latency.
    * Option 1 - Elastic Network Adapter (ENA) up to 100 Gbps.
    * Option 2 - Intel 82599 VF up to 10 Gbps (legacy).
* Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA):
    * Improved ENA for HPC, only works for linux.
    * Great for inter-node communications, tightly coupled workloads.
    * Leverages Message Passing Interface (MPI) standard.
    * Bypasses the underlying Linux OS to provide low-latency, reliable transport.

## **Storage.**

* Instance-attached storage:
    * EBS - scale up to 64,000 IOPS with io2 Block Express.
    * Instance Store - scale to millions of IOPS, linked to EC2 instance, low latency.
* Network Storage:
    * S3 - large blobs of data, not a file system.
    * EFS - scale IOPS based on total size, or use the provisioned IOPS.
    * FSx for Lustre:
        * HPC optimised distributed file system, millions of IOPS.
        * Backed by S3.

## **Automation & Orchestration.**

* AWS Batch:
    * Supports multi-node parallel jobs, which enables you to run single jobs that span multiple EC2 insyances.
    * Easily schedule jobs & launch EC2 instances accordingly.
* AWS Parallel Cluster:
    * Open-source cluster management tool to deploy HPC on AWS.
    * Configure using text files.
    * Automates the creation of a VPC, subnet, cluster type & instance types.
    * Ability to enable EFA on the cluster to improve network performance.