# **SQS.**

## **Standard Queues.**

* Oldest offering.
* Fully managed service.
* Scales from 1 message per second to 10,000 messages per second.
* Default retention period for messages is 4 days, can be configured to a maximum of 14 days.
* No limit to how many messages can be in a queue.
* Low latency (<10ms on publish & receive).
* Horizontal scaling in terms of number of consumers.
* Can have duplicate messages (at least once delivery).
* Can have out of order messages (best effort ordering).
* Limitation of 256KB per message sent.

## **Producing Messages.**

* Define a body.
* Can add message attributes as metadata (optional).
* Can provide delay delivery (optional).
* Receive a message identifier & MD5 hash of the body.

## **Consuming Messages.**

* Consumers can poll the SQS queue for any messages housed in the queue.
* A consumer can receive up to 10 messages at a time.
* Consumers have to process & delete the message from the queue within the message visibility timeout (is configurable).
* Consumers delete the message from the queue using the message ID & receipt handle.

## **FIFO Queues.**

* Newer offering.
* First-in, first-out message ordering.
* Name of the queue must end in ".fifo".
* Results in a lower throughput (up to 3000 messages per second with batching, 300 per second without).
* Messages are processed in order by the consumer.
* Messages are sent exactly once.
* 5 minute interval de-duplication using "Duplication ID".

## **Extended Client.**

* We can work around the 256KB message size limit to send larger messages if required.
* The extended client is a Java library.
* Works by sending the message to S3 & instead sending a metadata message to SQS.
* The consumer will then parse the metadata message to find the location in S3.

## **SQS Use Cases.**

* Used to decouple applications.
* Can buffer writes to a database.
* Handle large loads of messages coming in.
* SQS consumers can be paired with CloudWatch alarms for auto scaling.

## **Limits.**

* Maximum of 120,000 in-flight messages being processed by consumers.
* Batch request has a maximum of 10 messages.
* Message content has to be XML, JSON or unformatted text.
* Standard queues have an unlimited TPS.
* FIFO queues support up to 3000 messages per second with batching.
* Maximum message size is 256KB.
* Data retention can be set from 1 minute to 14 days.
* Pay per API request & network.

## **Security.**

* Encryption in flight using the HTTPS endpoint.
* Can enable SSE (server side encryption) using KMS.
    * Can set the Customer Master Key we want to use.
    * SSE only encrypts the body of the message, not the metadata fields such as message ID or receipt handle.
* IAM policies must allow usage of SQS.
* SQS queue access policy:
    * Finer grained control over IP.
    * Control over the time requests come in.