# **AWS Lambda.**

Let's take an example as to why Lambda is extremely powerful.

Consider EC2:

* Virtual servers in the cloud.
* Limited by RAM & CPU.
* Continuously running.
* Scaling means intervention to add / remove servers.

Now compare this to Lambda:

* Virtual functions - no servers or infrastructure to manage.
* Limited by time - short executions.
* Can be run on-demand.
* Scaling is completely automated.

## **Lambda benefits.**

* Easy pricing:
    * Pay per request & compute time.
    * Free tier of 1,000,000 AWS Lambda requests & 400,000 GBs of compute time.
* Integrated with the entire AWS suite of services.
* Integrated with many programming languages.
* Easy monitoring through CloudWatch.
* Easy to get more resources per functions (up to 10 GB of RAM).
* Increasing RAM will also improve CPU & network.

## **Lambda language support.**

* Node.js.
* Python.
* Java.
* C# (.NET Core).
* Golang.
* Ruby.
* Custom Runtime API.
* **AWS Lambda Container Image**.
    * The container image must implement the Lambda Runtime API.
    * ECS / Fargate is still preferred for running arbitrary Docker images.

## **AWS Lambda Integrations.**

* API Gateway:
    * Used to invoke Lambda functions directly.
* Kinesis:
    * Used for data transformations on the fly.
* DynamoDB:
    * Used to create triggers & interact with a NoSQL DB.
* S3:
    * Used to trigger Lambda functions (i.e. a file landing).
* Cloudfront:
    * Used for Lambda at Edge.
* EventBridge:
    * Used for event-based Lambda invocations.
* CloudWatch Alarms & Logs:
    * Used to invocate Lambda's based on controls.
* SNS & SQS:
    * Invocate Lambda functions to process messages.

There are a lot more Lambda integrations.