# **Overview.**

We want to give our users an identity so that they can interact with our application.

There are three different services that Cognito provides:

* Cognito User Pools:
    * Sign in functionality for app users.
    * Integrates fully with API Gateway.
* Cognito Identity Pools (Federated Identity):
    * Provide AWS credentials to users so that they can access AWS resources directly.
    * Integrates with Cognito User Pools as an identity provider.
* Cognito Sync:
    * Synchronise data from device to Cognito.
    * May be deprecated & replced by AppSync.

## **Cognito User Pools.**

* Create a serverless database of users for mobile apps.
* Simple logins - username / password.
* Possibility to verify emails / phone numbers & add MFA.
* Can enable Federated Identitites (Facebook, Google, SAML,...)
* Sends back a JSON Web Token (JWT).
* **Can be integrated with API Gateway for authentication**.

## **Federated Identity Pools.**

* Provide direct access to AWS resources from the client side.
* Do this by logging in to a federated identity provider - or remain anonymous.
* Get temporary AWS credentials back from the Federated Identity Pool.
* These credentails come with pre-defined IAM policies stating their permissions.
* e.g. provide temporary access to write to S3 buckets using a Facebook login.

## **Cognito Sync.**

* Deprecated - use AppSync now.
* Store preferences, configurations, state of app etc.
* Cross device sychronisation (any platform - iOS, Android,...).
* Offline capability (sync's when back online).
* **Requires Federated Identity Pool in Cognito (not User Pool)**.
* Store data in datasets (up to 1MB).
* Up to 20 datasets to synchronise.